Let's talk about the roles of a data engineer which can actually
vary a lot depending on where you work and the size of your company.
At larger companies, there are usually
dedicated data engineers who pull from many sources,
and pipeline the data into a usable form.
These sources can include website logs, smartphone app logs,
user data, transaction data,
sensor data, mechanical data, and much more.
Analysts can then use these results for dashboard visualizations,
predictive models, business decisions,
recommendations, or other data science applications.
Smaller companies often don't have the resources for a dedicated data engineer.
For these companies, a data scientist might have
more than one role taking on at least some of the responsibilities of a data engineer.
As data scientists, we focus much of our time on building mathematical,
machine learning, and domain specific business skills.
However, improving our engineering skills sometimes gets little attention.
This course will mimic the kind of work you'll do as
a data scientist in a smaller company and a larger company.
The first section focuses on writing data pipelines.
You'll practice pulling data from various sources,
transforming the data, and then storing the results in a database.
In the next section,
you'll create machine learning pipelines to
streamline data preparation and model building,
and at the end of the lesson is a really cool project,
where you can put what you've learned into practice.
Before we start coding,
let's introduce our industry partner for the data engineering project.